Linux Commands

1. cd /
Takes to the root directory.

2. ls
Shows the content of the data inside the directory (root directory).

3. cd (directory name)
Change directory.

4. (Inside directory) ls
Shows the content inside the directory.

5.(~) Represents Home of a directory.

6. cd ..
Reverts back to the main directory of the sub directory.

7. mkdir (directory name)
Is used to create a main directory.

8. touch (filename)
(Creates a file) in a directory.

9. vi (file name)
Is used to edit a file.

10. i
Is used to insert data like text in a txt file.

11.ESC Key
Is used to escape from insert mode.

12. Shift + :
Is used to save data in txt file.

13. When : appears type "w" for write and "q" for exit

14. cat (filename)
this command prints the content inside a text file.

15. cp (filename) /specified directory in hierarchical order/
Copies a file from a directory and paste it in another directory.

16. mv (filename) /specified directory in hierarchical order/
Moves a file from one directory to another directory.

17. rm (filename)
Removes or deletes a file from a directory.

18. man (command)
Displays details of commands.

19. find /specified directory in hierarchical order/ "filename"
Is used to find a file in a directory or a directory. if file found it returns a path of the file.

20. find /specified directory in hierarchical order/ "filename*"
* represents that if a user wants to find files with same names without thier extensions or if a user wants to find files or file by using the files first name. 

21. find /specified directory in hierarchical order/ -name "filename"

-name is a flag and is used to define that add a filename next to it.

22. uname
Returns the name of your operating system.

23. uname -a
Provides details of your computer such as processer architecture and operating system.

24. lscpu
Returns information about system such as processor speed, model name, cache and other informations.

25. df -h
h is a flag and is used to provide human readable output.
df provides information about used and available disk space which are mounted.

26. du /specified directory in hierarchical order/
du is used to identify the space aquired by the files in a directory.

27. du -s /specified directory in hierarchical order/
du -s returns the total size of the directory.

28. date
Returns date and time.

29. cal
returns calender.

30. w
Is used to define which user is online/log in.

31. apt-get install package -name
Is used to install a required package/dependency.

32. apt-cache search keyword
Defines the name of the package which will be downloaded.

33. info
Returns online information of info command.

34. type (command)
Defines the loaction of the command file.

35. bg
Defines background servies.

36. free
Defines how much memory is available.

37. ps
 Shows the running process/services to the user.

38. kill (process id)
Kills the process. 

39. nice
Runs a program on low priority.

40. top
Defines which process is utilizing certain amount CPU and RAM.

41. su -
su means switch to root user in the shell.

41. shutdown
powers off the computer.

42. sudo su
logs into root user (commonly used when access is denied while installng a package or dependency)

42. sudo 
Gains root priviliges for normal user.

43. Use TAB key to auto complete words with three or four letters written.

44. double tap TAB to check for possibilities
Example : apt (Double TAB) gives us possibilities that could be used with apt.

45. CTRL + a
This command brings the cursor at the beginning of a written command.

46. CTRL + e
This command brings the cursor to the end of the written command.

47. ls -l
Checkes for permissions of files i.e rw-rw-r

rw-rw-r are three classes... 1st class (rw) belongs to the user who has created this file.
2nd class (wr) belongs to the group if a file is allowed to the group of users.
3rd class belongs to other users those users are only allowed to read the file.
none of the classes are allowed to execute the file.

48. chmod (numeric values) (filename)
Edits the permissions of the file.

49. uptime
This command shows the time since the system started. also shows current time, active user, load average.

50. uname -srv
This command shows the name, release time and date, version.

51. cd ~
This commands leads us to the home(root) of the directory.

52. pwd
Prints the path of the working directory.

53. hostname
prints the hostname of the user.

54. hostname -i
prints the ip address.

55. cp (filename) (path in which the file will be copied)
Copies a file from one directory to another.

56. rm (filename)
Removes a file from the directory if exists.

57. mv (filename) (path in which the file will be moved)
Moves a file from one directory to another.

58. su
stands for substitue user is sed by a computer user to execute commands with the priviligies of another user account.
when executed it invokes a shell without changing the current working directory or the user environment.

59. sudo useradd john -m
-m is a flag and is used for creating a user.

60. sudo passwd john
changes password of the user.

61. sudo userdel john -r
-r is a flag and is used to remove or delete a user.

62. alias
alis is used to create a custom command
Example : alias myfile="touch myfile.txt"
here a custom command is created as (myfile) and this custom command can also be used to create myfile.txt in other directories by using custom command myfile.

63. unalias myfile
is used to remove the custom command.

64. sudo apt remove package name
Removes the installed package.

65. suo apt-cache search package name
Is used to find packages related to the package name.
commonly used when user usere does not have much information about the package.

66. cat /proc/cpuinfo
provides detailed information related to the cpu.

67. 
 







